PAGE 3 Figure 1. J−H vsH for the SAI photometry of NGC 4151. The blue dots are the measured values, and the red curve is the expected relation assuming that the variable component has a constantJ−H of 1.12, i.e., a ratio of frequency-unit ﬂux densities of 1.75, and the galaxy J and H magnitudes are 10.83 and 10.15, respectively, corresponding to 74.5± 5 and 89± 6 mJy, through a 12′′ aperture. and then subtracted the galaxy component from all the SAI measurements. All the other infrared photometry sequences had signiﬁ- cant time overlap with the SAI one. As at B-band, we con- verted magnitudes to ﬂuxes and then subtracted a constant ﬂux from all the 
PAGE 5 Figure 2. The B, J, H, K, L light curves of NGC 4151. The sources for and adjustments to individual light curves are discussed in the text. We also show a damped-random-walk (DRW) model (JA VELIN; Zu et al. 2013) to interpolate this light curve (the line). We have arbitrarily scaled J, H, K, L light curves by factors of 10, 100, 1000, 10000 to separate them for clarity. The time periods of Interval A, B, C, D, D’ (see Section 3.1) are indicated with vertical lines in different colors. the UV/optical and X-ray variability of NGC 4151, although they also found that the UV/optical band variation lags 3- 4 days behind the hard X-rays. Since the I
PAGE 6 Figure 3. Light curves in Interval C at B (blue circles) and K (red squares) (the former delayed by 35 days and smoothed by taking a seven-point running average). The undelayed B-band data is indi- cated by + symbols and clearly leads the K-band behavior. Overall, the two sets of data are in very good agreement suggesting a re- verberation delay of order 35 days. However, there is a signiﬁcant discrepancy in the range indicated by the arrow. is data for about six times the longer (∼ 90 day) lag with an average sampling of about four times Nyquist and just two gaps, each of roughly one period. The behavior during this period is largely consist
PAGE 6 Figure 4. Light curves for B-band and K-band in intervals B and D. To provide a rough match to the B-band curve, the K-band ﬂuxes have been multiplied by 1.5 in interval B and by 0.81 in interval D. the torus or other events confused with central activity that do not reach the circumnuclear torus (e.g., nearby supernovae: the B-band data are taken through an aperture of∼ 2 kpc di- ameter at the galaxy). Figure 6 shows a similar event in the IR light curve of another type-1 AGN, MCG 08-11-011 (the data are from Koshida et al. 2014), indicating such behav- ior might be common. The various possibilities – supernova, tidal disruption event and be
PAGE 7 Figure 5. Expanded view of the 35-day-delayed B and the K band light curves. The solid gray line is a polynomial ﬁt to the K-band data. The peak in B-band near JD 2452430 is apparent in three inde- pendent sets of measurements, while the lack of this peak is shown by two independent sets of K-band ones. We show four possible light curves, for a SNE Ia, SNE II-L, SNE II-P (Wheeler 1990) or a tidal destruction event (TDE), although known TDEs are more luminous (van Velzen et al. 2020). completely any uncorrelated B-band variations, we will ﬁrst compare the J-, H-, and L-band curves with the K-band one. We then compare the well-sampled K-band cu
PAGE 7 Figure 6. A similar event to that in Figure 5, but in comparing the V-band and K-band light curves of MCG 8-11-011, from Koshida et al. (2014). Again, the behavior of the event is similar to that of a SNE II-P or a TDE. perature of∼1600–2500 K6 (”Component A”) and another with a dust temperature of∼ 1000K (”Component B”). We use a double black-body to investigate the time- dependent behavior of the SED as summarized in Figure 8. The dust temperatures of the two components are reasonably stable7 while their emission strengths correlate with the B- band light curve. This conﬁrms that two dust components 6 Due to the lack of constraints at short
PAGE 8 Figure 7. Variability SED of NGC 4151. We show the standard deviations of the B, J, H, K, L light curves as green open circles. After subtracting the accretion disk variability contamination, the infrared dust SED (purple dots) is ﬁtted with one single black body (left panel) and two black bodies (right panel). The model SEDs, shown as black crosses, only ﬁt the observations for the two black body model. For comparison, we show the Elvis-like AGN normal template as grey lines. Figure 8. NGC 4151 light curves and the time dependence of the double-black-body best-ﬁt parameters in Interval C. with different temperatures are likely to be responsi
PAGE 8 Figure 8. NGC 4151 light curves and the time dependence of the double-black-body best-ﬁt parameters in Interval C. with different temperatures are likely to be responsible for the variable∼1–4µm emission. The presence of two dust components with different tem- peratures is not a surprise. Carbon and silicates are the dom- inant species of interstellar grains, and presumably also for the grains in the AGN torus. The sublimation temperatures, Tsub, of these grains are 1500–1800 K for graphite and 800– 1000 K for silicates; consequently only graphite grains would survive at the innermost regions and silicate grains would be distributed to larger
PAGE 11 Figure 9. Interpolated cross-correlation analysis of the secondary lag in the L-band for Interval C (left) Interval D (right). The top and middle panels show the K-band light curve and the K-subtracted L-band light curve after removing the accretion disk (AD) variability, which have been used as input for the PyCCF code. The bottom three panels show the cross-correlation function (CCF), the cross-correlation centroid distribution (CCCD) and the cross-correlation peak distribution (CCPD). The breadth of the CCF indicates that there are additional components besides the variable one; for example, half of the signal in Interval C comes from a pe
PAGE 12 Figure 10. Best-ﬁt results of all the IR light curves in Interval C with an integrated two-black-body dust reverberation model (see text for the model details). The observed light curves are shown as dots with different colors. We plot the best-ﬁt model as a thick grey line and the contribution from the two different dust components as red and blue lines. The relative contribution of the long lag (blue line) gradually increases towards the longer wavelength and ﬁnally dominates the L-band variability. Table 4. Best-ﬁt parameter values of the model ﬁtting all light curves in Interval C Parameter Prior 1 Median2 MAP ∆t1/day [−50, 150] 39 .32+0.
PAGE 13 Figure 11. Marginalized posterior probability distributions of the ﬁtting parameters of the integrated two-black-body dust reverberation model for light curves in Interval C. On the top of each histogram, we denote the median value of the ﬁtted parameters with 2-σ “uncertainties” (i.e., 2.5%, 50% and 97.5% quantiles) that cover 95% credible intervals. In the top-right corner, we present the SEDs of the two best-ﬁt black bodies (red and blue lines) and their combination (grey lines). The standard deviations of J, H, K, L light curve ﬂux are shown as orange dots and they generally match the model prediction despite the fact that the model does 
PAGE 14 Figure 12. Top Panel: Comparison of the B, J, H, K, L light curves of NGC 4151. We normalized these light curves over Interval C. Middle Panel–the best-ﬁt dust reverberation model (black open cir- cles connected with black lines) to the observed K-band light curve over the whole observed interval (red ﬁlled dots). Bottom Panel: the ratio of the observed K-band ﬂux to the prediction from the best-ﬁt dust reverberation model (grey line), which assumes a constant ra- tio of K-band to B-band ﬂuxes. After a period (to the extreme left) where the ratio decreases (discussed in Oknyansky et al. (1999)), the ratio increases steadily. We ﬁt this trend 
PAGE 15 Figure 13. Comparison of the long-term behavior of the variable output of NGC 4151 at K, B, in the UV , and in the soft X-ray. The K-band and B-band data are as discussed previously; we have subtracted the persistent component from the K-band data and the galaxy from both. The U-band data are from Couto et al. (2016) at 0.135µm, except for the ﬁnal complex of measurements that are from Edelson et al. (2017) at 0.193 µm but are corrected to 0.135 µm assuming a ν−1 spectrum in frequency units. The X-ray mea- surements are from the Rossi XTE all-sky-monitor, band A, from 1.3–3 keV . quired dust mass growth can be provided. The possibility of cha
PAGE 17 Figure 14. Time evolution of the best-ﬁt single-lag dust reverberation model of NGC 4151. Top panel: the optical B-band (blue) and near-IR K-band (red) light curves and the different epochs in which the ﬁtting is carried out. Middle panel: the evolution of the K-to-B band time lag for epoch a, b, ... q (orange dots) and E1, E2, E3 (green dots). The light blue is the expected trend if the dust lag is following a ∆t∝√LAGN relation; we have normalized this relation assuming a K-band single lag of 37 days for the mean AGN B-band ﬂux at Interval C. Bottom panel: the evolution of the relative variation amplitude (AMP). The grey line is a scaled ver
PAGE 19 Figure 15. Single-lag dust reverberation model ﬁtting of the N-band light curve of NGC 4151. On the left, the top panel shows the optical B-band light curve (blue solid line); the middle panel presents N-band (red dots), 20–24 µm (orange dots) and 34-37 µm (green dots) light curves, and the best-ﬁt reverberation model of the N-band light curve (light blue curves); the bottom panel shows the residual of the N-band light curve ﬁtting. Panels on the right are the marginalized posterior probability distributions of the ﬁtting parameters to the N-band data. a timescale of∼20–25 years, the variable component of hot dust emission has increased gradu
PAGE 20 Figure 16. Top panel: The relative scaling factor AMP for lumi- nosity (νFν) as a function of wavelength. The B-band is shown as a light blue dot with the wavelength dependence of AMP of the ac- cretion disk as a dashed blue line. The red and blue solid lines are the two hot dust components (graphite and silicate) with their com- bination as a black dotted line. The N-band is shown as a purple dot. Bottom panel: The relative scaling factor AMP for luminosity (νFν) as a function of distance. We show the radial distance from the nucleus for each component. through a limited range of angles [ θ1, θ2] (the light blue shaded area), i.e., LAD,DRS =
PAGE 21 Figure 17. Simple geometric models to illustrate the torus vertical structures. We denote the black hole and its accretion as a big black dot crossed-over by a blue line. In the upper right case, the torus is connected to the outer part of accretion disk as a ﬂared disk with a puffed-up inner edge (yellow shaded region). The system is inclined to the observer at angle θobs. To aid our derivation, we highlight a dust component in the torus (dark green shaded region) with a half- opening-angle from θ1 to θ2. The inner puffed-up edge shields much of the intervening torus from direct nuclear radiation. Only between these angles can the accretion 
PAGE 23 Figure 18. Left panel: Best-ﬁt results of the AGN IR SED of NGC 4151 with the semi-empirical model presented in Lyu & Rieke (2018). The photometry data (yellow dots) was taken from Alonso-Herrero et al. (2003). The SED model (blue thick solid lines) is composed of the AGN component (red dashed line) and the stellar component (magenta dotted lines). We also plot the corresponding intrinsic AGN template before polar dust obscuration (green dashed line). As an comparison, the grey line is the dust radiation transfer model SED for NGC 4151 in Siebenmorgen et al. (2015), shifted down slightly so it is not obliterated by our empirical ﬁt. Right pan
PAGE 24 Figure 19. Light curve at K (red) compared with 10µm measure- ments (black; the former delayed by 30 days and the latter renormal- ized to bring them onto the same scale). Although models for the reverberation behavior predict that the behavior at these two wave- lengths should be very similar (Almeyda 2017a), the measurements show very little resemblance. with sublimating graphite dust) to achieve adequate match- ing. Recently, Almeyda et al. (2020) found the predicted torus sizes at 2.2µm from the Nenkova et al. (2008a,b) mod- els are typically a factor of∼2 larger than the constrains from previous K-band reverberation mapping and argued th
PAGE 27 Figure 20. Illustration of the circumnuclear dusty environment of NGC 4151 at different scales. Panel (a): The inner 5-kpc region of NGC 4151 as revealed by HST WFC3 images. We can directly see the narrow-line-region (NLR) clouds near the central bright AGN, projecting along two directions, and two dust lanes as well as numerous small dust streams at different locations. Panel (b): Dust components at 100 pc scales, featuring the narrow line region and polar dust in the AGN ionization cone. Outside this cone, relatively cool dust is shielded by the torus from the direct heating of the AGN. Panel (c): Dust structures at∼1–10 pc scales, featurin
PAGE 30 Figure 21. Cross-correlation analysis between the J, H, and L light curves to the K-band light curve of NGC 4151 for Interval C. The results for J, H, L bands are shown from left to right. In the top panels, we show the J, K, L light curve data after subtracting the accretion disk variability (and the dust variability traced by K-band subtracted from the L band, based on a ∼1800 K black body spectrum) as red dots, the best-ﬁt one-lag model as grey thick lines, and the K-band light curve interpolated by a DRW model after subtracting the accretion disk variability as blue thin lines. We denote the value of the best-ﬁt parameters in the MAP samp
PAGE 31 Figure 22. Same as Figure 21, but for Interval D. Draine, B. T., & LI Aigen 2001, ApJ, 551, 807 Edelson, R., Gelbord, J., Cackett, E., et al. 2017, ApJ, 840, 41 Efstathiou, A. & Rowan-Robinson, M. 1995, MNRAS, 273, 649. doi:10.1093/mnras/273.3.649 Elvis, M., Marengo, M., & Karovska, M. 2002, ApJL, 567, L107 Fischer, T. C., Crenshaw, C. M, Kraemer, S. B. & Schmitt, H. R. 2013, ApJS, 209, 1 Fritz, J., Franceschini, A., & Hatziminaoglou, E. 2006, MNRAS, 366, 767 Frogel, J. A., Persson, S. E., Aaronson, M., and Matthews, K. 1978, ApJ, 220, 75 Fuller, L., Lopez-Rodriguez, E., Packham, C., et al. 2019, MNRAS, 483, 3404 Gallimore, J. F., Elitzur, M.
PAGE 32 Figure 23. Two-lag dust reverberation model ﬁtting results of individual IR light curves of NGC 4151 during Interval C (2000/06–2007/05). In the left panels, we show the IR light curve data after subtracting the accretion disk variability as red dots, the best-ﬁt two-lag dust reverberation model as grey thick lines, and the B-band light curve interpolated by a DRW model as blue solid lines. We denote the value of the best- ﬁt parameters in the MAP sample in red. In the right panels, we present the marginalized posterior probability distributions of the ﬁtting parameters. In the probability distribution plots and histogram plots, we use red li