PAGE 28 Fig. 1.— Diﬀerent heating spectra ( left) and their resulting dust-reprocessed emission (right); the emergent IR emission is independent of the input spectrum. T he three diﬀerent input SEDs are normalized by their respective bolometric ﬂuxes. Eac h is embedded in a smooth, geometrically thick shell of OHMc dust, with density proﬁle ∝ R−1, and shell thick- ness Y = 500. The IR emission does not depend on the incident spectral sha pe and requires only that the underlying spectrum provide some optical/UV or short er wavelength photons for heating. Thus, for a given total optical depth, characterize d by τV , the optical depth at 0.55 µm, as mar
PAGE 29 Fig. 2.— Total, absorption, and scattering cross sections for the t hree dust models we consider. The total cross sections are similar from 0.1 to 5 µm. However, the silicate features themselves and the ratio of the cross section at 10 and 18 µm are signiﬁcantly diﬀerent, which aﬀects the resulting spectra of dusty galaxies.
PAGE 30 Fig. 3.— Total dust cross section as a function of wavelength ( black ) for three diﬀerent dust chemistries. In all cases, two prominent features stand out near 10µm and 18 µm. Each red curve is the spline interpolation of the total cross section, ﬁt to on ly the intervals marked in blue. These ﬁts deﬁne the “featureless dust,” excluding the silicat e features, from 5 to 31.5µm.
PAGE 31 Fig. 4.— Numerical calculation of the dust-reprocessed emission ( solid black line ) due to an AGN located in a spherically-symmetric continuous distribution of O HMc dust, with radial density proﬁle ∝ R−2, and shell thickness Y = 600. Results for τV = 1, 200, and 400 are plotted ( top to bottom ). Adopting the “featureless dust” cross section (the red line of Figure 3) while retaining the same dust geometry and heating spec trum produces the spectrum plotted in red. Fitting a spline over the three selected inte rvals (marked in blue at the bottom of the plot) yields the continuum plotted as a blue dash ed line. The good agreement between the
PAGE 32 Fig. 5.— Spitzer IRS observations ( black ) and continuum ﬁts of 3C273, IRAS 08572+3915, and IRAS 06009-7716, which serve as examples of continuum-, abs orption-, and PAH- dominated spectra ( a, b, and c, respectively). Heavy lines mark the smoothed ﬁtting intervals and dashed lines show the resulting continuum. IRAS 08572+3915 sh ows a signiﬁcant crys- talline silicate contribution around 18 µm. The amorphous silicate component we identify in this case (see text) is plotted in green. (See Armus et al. 2008, in pr eparation, for spectra and continuum ﬁts of the complete sample.)
PAGE 33 Fig. 6.— Relationship between feature strength, S10, and τsil, 10, the optical depth at the peak of the 10 µm silicate feature, for silicate abundance of 25% ( left) and 75% ( right). The corresponding optical depth at 0 . 55µm, τV , is marked along the right axis. Results are calculated for Y = 200, with p = 0, 1, and 2 plotted in black, red, and blue, respectively. For the two abundances, the results are similar as a function of τsil, 10 because S10 fundamentally depends on the absolute amount of silicate present. For example, w hen τsil, 10 = 4 (which corresponds to τV = 150 in the low-abundance model, and τV = 40 in the high-abundance mod
PAGE 34 Fig. 7.— Strength of the 18 µm silicate feature vs. strength of the 10 µm silicate feature computed in numerical simulations using OHMc dust ( lines) and measured in ULIRGs ( ﬁlled symbols). Computations of diﬀerent geometries are plotted in diﬀerent colo rs, and open symbols along these lines mark total optical depth. In the smooth s pherical shell models, line style indicates shell thickness, Y , and color indicates radial power of the density distribution, p. For the clumpy models, we plot only the p = 0, Y = 30 results. Each track corresponds to a diﬀerent value of N0 (with 1, 3, and 5 from the upper right to lower left, respectively). Al
PAGE 35 Fig. 8.— Strength of the 18 µm silicate feature vs. strength of the 10 µm silicate feature computed in numerical simulations using OHMw dust ( lines). Other lines and symbols as in Figure 7. Simulations using this dust chemistry cannot account for the observed deep absorption of ULIRGs and also cannot accomodate the relatively st rong 18 µm emission of local sources, which fall above the tracks, despite the large rang e of geometric conﬁgurations calculated.
PAGE 36 Fig. 9.— Strength of the 18 µm silicate feature vs. strength of the 10 µm silicate feature computed in numerical simulations using Draine dust ( lines). Other lines and symbols as in Figure 7. This dust chemistry shares the same problems of the OHMw dust (Figure 8).
PAGE 36 Figure 7. This dust chemistry shares the same problems of the OHMw dust (Figure 8).
PAGE 37 Fig. 10.— Eﬀect of artiﬁcially scaling feature cross sections with resp ect to continuum (described in §5.2); the ratio of 10 and 18 µm feature strengths in the dust cross sections fully determines the location of the model tracks. We plot the p = 2 models, which are independent of Y , for τV = 0 to 400. All dust with a given Sc 18/S c 10 ratio produces model tracks that have the same slope. All these tracks start along a line that originates at ( S10, S18) = (0, 0) and has a slope equal to the Sc 18/S c 10 ratio. We show this locus for the Draine dust with a light gray line. The dust properties cannot be modiﬁed with a simple scaling to matc
PAGE 38 Fig. 11.— Measured silicate strengths of ULIRGs coded with optical c lassiﬁcations. Optical emission line ratios are characteristic of H II regions, LINERs, or AGNs. The AGN spectra are further identiﬁed based on the presence (AGN1) or absence ( AGN2) of spectrally broad permitted lines. Primary or average classiﬁcations are plotted with o pen symbols. If one diagnostic line ratio or alternate analysis yields a diﬀerent classiﬁcatio n, this secondary identiﬁcation is also plotted ( skeletal symbols ). The LINER and H II ULIRGs generally show deep absorption, characteristic of sources embedded in geo metrically and optically thick material. Al